lights camera what is up guys karma
medic here and welcome back to another
dose
I'm joined by we met through a mutual
friend Kenji
we've known each other for a little
while now so we've decided to make a
video about a level and IV tips you know
the exams are coming up soon and we
thought what better to do than to tell
you guys what we found the most useful
when we were studying and what helped us
do the best I did the IV in high school
to scented a levels and we're gonna try
and give you guys tips that you haven't
heard before something that's a little
bit different so you'll find it the most
useful by how to look at a to civ tips
and they're way more creative and more
fun than mine so I'm gonna let her start
with the first is I guess one of the
first things that I written down it's
the work in set time periods that suit
you now this is something I definitely
used in my a-levels because I'm one of
those people who can't sit for really
long periods and study I know you do
that which I don't understand and but
the way I used to study is I would set
my timer for 40 minutes and for forty
minutes straight no distractions no
phone no nothing I would
and then the students timer goes off I
would have ten minutes listen to music
drawing and tip people maybe checking my
phone but trying not to and then again
it's like ten minutes over
that's my forty minute and I would kind
of just do that a couple of times for
maybe like four three four hours
something like that I think that's a
great tip and I think the most important
part of what you said actually is study
fair a period of time that suits you so
everyone is different you know a really
common study pickme Pomodoro have you
heard of it it's like 15 minutes of
studying five minutes break or something
like that so really short periods of
studying and then a short break
I first need like to study in for our
blocks so I study for four hours and
then I take a one or two hour break and
then four hours that I want it to our
big find what works for you find what
helps you stay concentrated and study
for those pizzas for my next tip I've
got something a little bit creative
alright this is something that I kind of
compete with a Tuesday here so I'm not
only giving a practical practical buddy
tips so yeah the next thing I want to
talk about is to not forget about your
mental health so when you're studying
for long periods of time you know if you
have exams coming up or even if you're
cramming really hard for something it's
gonna take a massive toll on your brain
and on your mental health on your
happiness and you want to make sure that
you do things in your life that sort of
balance that out so for me something
that I always always do is exercise
exercise for me it's literally me
sweating out my stress and it works so
so so whether that's going for a run
going to the gym playing basketball
whatever it is and another way that I
keep up my mental health is through
things like rewards so for example if I
say at 9 p.m. no matter what I'm just
gonna play video games with my friends
and chill you know that's that's a good
break from studying you don't want to
study 12 hours a day or study I was
gonna say 4 hours non-stop
but you know give yourself breaks give
yourself rewards and do something else
that takes your mind off of this study
you have to have that balance otherwise
we agree I think personally for me two
things are really important when I get
into like exam would I it's a mistake I
always make is I kind of isolate myself
and I'm a very extroverted person and if
I'm not around people for a long time
and just get really fast and then I just
starts I don't know I'm not doing as
well in my vision and then something
that's fun because studying is fun if
you'd enjoy your learning it can be fun
it starts becoming work so for me it's
very important to my mental health I
know that I have to see friends and I
know that I have to do something
creative so like I said doodling is like
a really easy one but like even make
videos so at that kind of fun for me
personally and I know you've got yours
is important so it could be this
identify something that really helps you
so my second point is to create some
sort of reward system and basically what
I mean by that is to give yourself
something to look forward to either
something small so for example saying
after 40 minutes you're going to get
yourself I don't know something like
that or make yourself a cup of tea or
maybe watch a short episode of something
oh you can give yourself something wrong
time to look forward to so you can say
that's at 6 p.m. tonight I'm going to go
see my friends it's 3 o'clock now so I
have to work from 3 to 6 and then I can
go and enjoy that time with my friends
and I think when you have something to
look forward to excited this definitely
works to be like
when I have something to look forward to
it doesn't make me feel like I'm just
studying and just yes nothing and also
it doesn't mean it makes you feel like
there's a speck time period and then
after that so I think that's a really
good I couldn't agree more
using rewards to help motivate myself to
study is something that I do all the
time up till now put all your studying
time into a blog and put your happy fun
reward time into another book and it
could be something as simple as going to
get tea from the kitchen going to speak
to a friend down the hall if your
university or co-lead your friend for 10
minutes just to blow off some steam or
whatever or it can be something like
going out to an amusement park or
whatever whether big or small set the
time for your reward and work towards it
my next tip is so important that it
should have probably mean my first tip
is to make sure that you focus on your
weaknesses all right
don't leave your weaknesses till the end
I know I'm a victim of this a lot of
people are victim of this you look at
what's most difficult or what you think
will take the longest for you to study
or the longest view to learn and you're
like yeah I'll do that later no problem
I'll put it at the end of the week on my
timetable or whatever really trying to
avoid doing that if you can if it's your
weakness that's where you're going to
lose marks so you want to focus on that
first and make sure you get caught up
and up to speed in that topic or in that
subject or whatever because you know
there's no point getting like straight 7
to 8 stars in your best classes and then
like a 3 or 4 or what the equivalent is
maybe like a C in the class that you're
not good at which is your biggest
weakness gonna say there's a same s
let's say something along lines that eat
your toads first and I'm not really sure
where the expression comes from but it
essentially means like the thing that
you're looking forward to doing the
least is the thing you should do the
first and get the
having said that though I do you want to
challenge that a little bit because
personally for me if I have plenty of
time you actually should work on the
things you don't feel comfortable with
and you should build on all of those but
what I found is that if I left something
if the last minute thing has already
happens that bridge has already been
burned I tend to find that the more I
tried to push through my weakness the
worse that'll make me feel so I just
think I'm going to try and build on the
things that I know well and know them
really well to pull them all so but I
think on a general consensus if you do
that to begin with you wouldn't have to
do this near the end just to give a
context of where that's coming from in
university that I had too much rules and
sorry Act one module in which I only had
time to study half of this and the
thought of looking at the half that I
didn't know was so daunting that I
thought no you know what I'm just going
to work as much as I can on the one side
you know and I still got like a high two
one and it's only because of that tiny
part no I think in that situation it
makes perfect sense then when I say do
what focus on your weaknesses first the
assumption is that you're gonna cover
all the material yes if you're not gonna
cover all the material you don't have
enough time to cover all the material
then you have to make a lot of choices a
lot of strategic choices and focusing on
your strengths like it depends on so
many things like if it's an essay based
topic where you're gonna choose three
out of five essays obviously focus on
the three essays you know best as
opposed to figuring out the one even
know least and so yeah it does depend on
a bunch of things but me personally I
always study all of the topics all of
the content so that's why I go with that
I study like that not like to create a
study space
I the reason I did actually use this
during my own a-level exams and it's
because I think a teacher of mine said
that students who do revision in the
room that they take the exam do best
have you heard that to you oh I was
gonna say something similar go ahead so
this is something that I thought that
was told to me and I thought that okay
so what I'm going to do is I'm going to
create a little study stick I mean it's
not quite the same but based on that
feeling and I created a part of my room
that was dedicated to studying and every
time I would be in that part of my room
like at my desk or so but I knew that
okay it's time to study here and if I
wanted to take a break I wouldn't say
that I would go downstairs or go
somewhere else so that that is my study
space and my rest and rest of life space
is separated and that just helped me get
in the mindset that that is such a good
idea I always say separate your study
space from your sleeping and your plate
please oh yeah like if you study on your
bed which is where you also watch an
ethics and also where you sleep it's
hard to mentally separate all those
things like my desk is for working my
bed is for sleeping sort of related to
that I had friends who would only chew
gum when they studied and when they took
exams yes okay yeah yourself it's about
having those cues that like bring you
back to that studying mode and so like
you said if you study in an environment
that's similar to where you're gonna
write your exam then you get in that
mood you get in that zone where you know
your brain knows you have to study you
have to focus
et cetera et cetera
from that point my next step is kind of
related so I guess we'll segue into it
they were 20 about creating a study
environment right so one of my tips is
to create an environment with little
distraction in this day and age where
we're checking our phones so often we're
constantly having information thrown at
us it's so hard to study if you have
your phone there sitting on your desk
and it lights up or makes a noise every
now and again like when I study if my
phone is on my desk it's upside down
obviously notifications mouth do not
disturb on you know it's as quiet as can
be and facing down and usually it's
thrown far away from where my desk is on
my bed or I put it in the kitchen or in
another room because like the the
temptation even without thinking about
it to just pick up your phone and check
what's going on is so high and I find
that when my phone is even when it's on
my bed which is like I'd have to stand
up and walk to get it which if you think
about it is like nothing but even that
barrier prevents me from going to do it
so yeah I would say your phone has to be
going if you're serious about doing a
long study session your phone needs to
be out of the picture yeah yeah and I
think and I don't know about the but
maybe have a little that such that our
apps that's you can install any computer
that don't allow you to open certain
things like Facebook and YouTube like
that kind and it's about something you
could if you really don't trust yourself
because I'm working blocks I put it on
airplane mode so and they genuinely I
feel like I because I know that I'm not
going to use it and this is a genuine
thing I did to try and get me out of the
habit of checking every time that my
foot was on airplane mode and I was
about to go and turn it off I would bit
up and then I would like write a little
like number one so it's kind of like a
reminder that you tried to check your
phone once and then
makes you think that oh oh yeah oh so
you actively think about it instead of
on autopilot and I've just written down
to switch up your learning style from
for example visual to auditory to
kinesthetic and I think this very much
depends on you because and this is
disclaimer I'm giving because for
example you know that visual learning
works for you and the others don't then
maybe don't bother don't force yourself
than me I ought to chew you're looking
very well so if I'm just walking around
and I'm listening to information it's
all it almost feels like someone's
having a conversation with me and I
enjoyed that because I enjoy listening
to my content fans must be loved but at
the same time I am also very visual
person and I need to see where something
is on a page in order to remember it
well so for me switching between the two
really helped and different parts of
information kind of come together and
but as I said it's good for you guys to
have a little play around and see what
works yeah exactly figure out what works
for you
like I know I'm very much a visual
learner the auditory thing doesn't work
too well for me so I always convert
everything I have to paper notes and
then like geographical positioning of
words on the paper is what I remember
best so that's how I organize my notes
within a page about figuring out how it
is that you learn best and once you
figure out stick to it you know don't
change
amount of I guess study exploring that
one should do but I guess once you're
comfortable with something don't feel
the need to do somebody else's method
this one you've probably heard before
but honestly I think it's so important
that I just have to throw it in this
video is to have a good study plan yes I
can't do exam revision periods I can't
do the work that I have scheduled even
for that week without setting a good
solid plan at the beginning have your
calendar you have your days your dates
whatever and you fill in what you're
gonna do each day but you don't need to
be overly be realistic with the Amish
work you're deciding to do per day okay
it's that way you actually get it done
if you have time left over that's great
you can continue to work or you can be
happy that you actually did the work
that's there whereas if you schedule too
many things in one day you might not
finish it you'll get stressed it has to
move to the next day
yeah I honestly I couldn't agree more
and and I think we should we'll finish
up on that point because that's a really
strong point because this is something
again I learned the hard way all right
and this thing I would make it I would
make a checklist of everything I need
like a whole ton and then he can choose
what I want on the day there is a bad
idea because going back to houses point
about focusing on your weakness when you
do that you automatically end up leaving
your weaknesses until the end because
you don't want to do it and this is
something I've learned through further
education and even my job right now that
if I set cost and they no matter what
I'm going to get this done then it gets
done whereas if I say oh well I have 10
things to choose from maybe I'll do this
maybe I do that honestly it's it's
building up the discipline and the
schedule is so important
absolutely like I go to sleep knowing
that when I wake up this is the topic
I'm gonna study like this is the task
that I'm gonna continue and it gives you
so much clarity you don't
anxious you know you know exactly what
you're doing yeah you have estimated how
long it's gonna take
yeah just climbing things ahead is
Sookie it's Sookie and this is also you
know this general notion that it takes
brain power to make decisions about what
you want to study so the less
decision-making time that's you invest
on the day of your study the better
imagine waking up and spending an hour
on what topic to advise because you're
not sure yeah yeah just do it the night
before do the weeks before we create a
study program for sure
yeah that is it those are all the tips
that we have for you guys today I hope
you've enjoyed them I hope some of them
I knew that you can implement them into
your own study routine your own study
technique that you find them useful we
basically want to wish you the best of
luck for your upcoming exams we know
it's a difficult period alright guys
thank you so much for watching go check
out - says YouTube channel like I said
just plain teen interesting videos over
there and if you guys want to follow us
on Instagram as well you can do so over
here and over here yeah
signing out see you guys in the next
video